<html>
  <body>
    <h1>Work Experience</h1>
      <p>Work experience was very valuable this year. It was the main reason I did TY, and I am glad this is the case. It helped me narrow down subjects for Leaving Certificate, as well as giving me experience of what some possible workplaces would be like.</p>
      <h3>ENFER Labs</h3>
        <p>I was offered a placement in ENFER Labs, Naas. ENFER is a business that carries out various tests in cattle, for farmers. They test for diseases, such as tuberculosis and bovine diarrhoea, as well as for pregnancy. They also carry out meat speciation tests on a variety of meats.</p>
        <p>This was my most enjoyable placement. My mentor was very nice, and gave me plenty to work on alongside her (including running experiments with out-of-date kits, for example). Through this, I got a great feel for what work in a lab would be like: quite repetitive. Experiments in a testing lab can be quite dull and repetitive. I was personally situated in the research and development department of the labs, and still found that tests needed to be repeated again and again with different variables to find results.</p>
        <p>However, I loved my time in the lab. There were so many interesting things to be learned, and carrying out very long experiments was a new experience. There may be a career for me in a lab in the future, but I must realise first that every job has repetition, instead of seeking out one with something new to do every day.</p>
      <h3>Frank McMahon and Co. Accountants and Auditors</h3>
        <p>Accounting is not as boring as I would have thought. At Frank McMahon and Co., I was given a typical intern placement: filling in data to spreadsheets. However, I actually didn't find it that tedious! Maybe this was due to the fact that I was finding things to do: like conditional formatting and sorting corrupted entries. However, maybe it is due to the fact that I like working with numbers, and that accounting is for me!?</p>
        <p>I do not know yet. Nevertheless, I enjoyed my time in accounting, and this helped me pick accounting for leaving cert. I firmly believe that this is the correct choice. However, I think a career in accounting may be a bit tedious for my liking.</p>
      <h3>Pfizer Newbridge</h3>
        <p>My first block week placement was in Pfizer Newbridge. I learned much about the specifics of pharmaceutical manufacturing, but also a general idea of what this kind of work was like.</p>
        <p>This placement was more like a tour of Pfizer than a work placement, but I was given a lot of great career advice. Things such as: to take a college course that has a guaranteed work placement, that a business degree is not needed for an administrative or business role, that testing labs are very boring and repetitive, and that anyone can innovate, no matter what their job description is.</p>
        <p>This placement showed me all the different roles involved in simply making a tablet: people to carry the raw materials, semi-finished product and finished product to and from different machines, people to operate the machines, people to maintain and repair the machines, people to innovate new designs for newer, more efficient machines, accountants, organisers, the list goes on!</p>
        <p>Finally, this placement taught me the merits of working with a multi-national company. In Pfizer, they encourage improvement of self. Therefore, if a Pfizer employee wants to study a university course to better their qualifications in whatever profession they are currently in, Pfizer will have on-site lectures for those courses. Pfizer employees also receive free healthcare.</p>
        <p>My placement in Pfizer didn't help much in deciding my career, but it did give me guidelines as to how I should choose my career.</p>
      <h3>Grey Abbey Small Animals Veterinary</h3>
        <p>My placement in Grey Abbey was excellent. I went to Grey Abbey not out of an interest in animals, but in surgery in general. However, I left with a sense that veterinary might be an excellent career. In Grey Abbey, I wasn't limited to cleaning out kennels and other nasty jobs, I was let sit in, and even assist in, the surgeries taking place throughout the week. Through this I realised I am really "good with blood" and I was very keenly interested in the surgeries. Plus, the staff at Grey Abbey brought their dogs into work. Who wouldn't want to be a vet!?</p>  
      <h3>Polo Ralph Lauren</h3>
        <p>I spent seven weeks in Polo Ralph Lauren in Kildare Village. This work experience was in preparation for a summer job; I wanted to know whether I would like to work in a retail environment, and I wanted to have work experience on my CV to give myself a better cvhance of getting a job.</p>
        <p>This work experience was quite boring; working on a Monday certainly didn't help. Retail is definitely not a career I would like to stay in long-term, and this work experience actually might motivate me further to pursue a much better career.</p>
  </body>
</html>
